use-cases.mdx, before:

---
title: "Use Cases"
description: "What you can build with location-based smart contracts"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — These examples demonstrate the intended patterns.
</Warning>

# What You Can Build

Astral Location Services enables a new category of decentralized applications: **location-based smart contracts**. By combining geospatial computation with EAS resolvers, you can gate any onchain action by real-world location.

## The Pattern

<Steps>
  <Step title="User proves location">
    Creates a location attestation (or submits raw coordinates)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Astral computes">
    Performs spatial operation (distance, containment, etc.) in TEE
  </Step>
  <Step title="Signed result">
    Returns Policy Attestation with computation result
  </Step>
  <Step title="Contract executes">
    Resolver verifies and triggers business logic
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Local Currencies

**Concept:** Token pairs that can only be traded by people physically in a region.

Create neighborhood economies where you must be present to participate. SF residents trade BAY tokens, NYC residents trade APPLE tokens.

```typescript
// User in San Francisco
const myLocation = await astral.location.create(userGPS);
const eligibility = await astral.compute.contains(
  sfBayAreaUID,
  myLocation.uid,
  { schema: GEOGATED_SWAP_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);
// Resolver verifies location → executes swap atomically
```

**Ideas:**
- Neighborhood currencies
- Regional stablecoins
- Tourism tokens (only tradeable in the city)
- Event-specific tokens (festival currency)

---

## Neighborhood DAOs

**Concept:** Governance tokens only mintable by residents of a specific area.

```typescript
const noeValleyDAO = new GeogatedDAO({
  region: noeValleyPolygonUID,
  tokenName: "Noe Valley Governance"
});

// Prove you live/work in the neighborhood
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  noeValleyPolygonUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: DAO_MEMBERSHIP_SCHEMA }
);
await noeValleyDAO.join(proof);

// Vote on local issues
await noeValleyDAO.vote(proposalId, voteChoice);
```

**Ideas:**
- Community governance
- Co-op management
- Neighborhood resource allocation
- Local mutual aid networks

---

## Proof-of-Visit NFTs

**Concept:** Collectibles you can only mint by physically visiting a location.

```typescript
// Prove you're at the Eiffel Tower
const proof = await astral.compute.within(
  myLocationUID,
  eiffelTowerUID,
  100,  // within 100 meters
  { schema: VISIT_NFT_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);

// Resolver mints NFT if you're close enough
```

**Ideas:**
- Travel badges (collect cities/landmarks)
- Conference attendance proofs
- Scavenger hunts with onchain checkpoints
- Historical site verification

---

## Delivery Verification

**Concept:** Escrow that releases only when package arrives at the right location.

```solidity
contract DeliveryEscrow {
    bytes32 public deliveryZoneUID;

    function confirmDelivery(
        bytes32 policyAttestationUID
    ) public {
        Attestation memory att = eas.getAttestation(policyAttestationUID);

        // Verify attester
        require(att.attester == astralSigner, "Not from Astral");

        // Check: was delivery location inside the delivery zone?
        (bool wasInZone, , , ) = abi.decode(
            att.data,
            (bool, bytes32[], uint64, string)
        );

        require(wasInZone, "Wrong delivery location");
        escrow.release();
    }
}
```

**Ideas:**
- P2P delivery marketplaces
- Supply chain verification
- Last-mile logistics
- Food delivery with location proof

---

## Event Check-Ins

**Concept:** POAPs, rewards, or access that require physical presence.

```typescript
// At a conference
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  conferenceVenueUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: EVENT_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);

// Resolver grants access/mints POAP
```

**Ideas:**
- Conference attendance tracking
- Concert/festival badges
- Meetup verification
- Sports event proof-of-attendance

---

## Proximity-Weighted Voting

**Concept:** Vote weight increases the closer you are to what's being voted on.

```solidity
function vote(uint proposalId, bytes32 policyAttestationUID) public {
    // Decode distance from numeric policy attestation
    (uint256 distanceCm, , , , ) = abi.decode(...);
    uint256 distanceM = distanceCm / 100;

    // Closer = more voting power
    uint256 weight = 1000 / (distanceM + 1);
    proposals[proposalId].voteWithWeight(msg.sender, weight);
}
```

**Ideas:**
- Local infrastructure decisions
- Park/facility usage votes
- Noise ordinance voting
- Development impact assessment

---

## Location-Based Marketplaces

**Concept:** Buy/sell only from people in your area.

```typescript
// List item (seller must be in region)
const sellerProof = await astral.compute.contains(
  regionUID,
  sellerLocationUID,
  { schema: MARKETPLACE_SCHEMA }
);
await marketplace.list(itemId, price, sellerProof);

// Buy item (buyer must be nearby seller)
const proximityProof = await astral.compute.within(
  buyerLocationUID,
  sellerLocationUID,
  5000,  // within 5km
  { schema: MARKETPLACE_SCHEMA }
);
await marketplace.buy(itemId, proximityProof);
```

**Ideas:**
- Hyperlocal classifieds
- Farmers markets with verified vendors
- Tool/equipment sharing
- Local services marketplace

---

## Location-Based Games

**Concept:** Onchain gameplay tied to real-world movement.

```typescript
// Capture territory
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  territoryUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: GAME_SCHEMA }
);
await game.capture(territoryId, proof);

// Battle (only if players are nearby)
const proximityProof = await astral.compute.distance(
  player1LocationUID,
  player2LocationUID,
  { schema: GAME_SCHEMA }
);
if (proximityProof.result < 100) {
  await game.battle(opponent, proximityProof);
}
```

**Ideas:**
- Territory control games
- AR treasure hunts
- Geocaching with tokens
- Location-based battles

---

## Environmental Monitoring

**Concept:** Carbon credits and conservation proofs tied to physical locations.

```typescript
// Verify tree planting at specified location
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  conservationZoneUID,
  plantingSiteUID,
  { schema: CARBON_SCHEMA }
);

await carbonRegistry.registerPlanting(proof, treeCount);
// Mint carbon credits
```

**Ideas:**
- Reforestation verification
- Wildlife habitat monitoring
- Pollution reporting
- Community garden tracking

---

## The Building Blocks

All of these are built with just a few core operations:

| Operation | Use Case Examples |
|-----------|-------------------|
| `distance(a, b)` | Proximity voting, delivery verification |
| `contains(area, point)` | Geofencing, DAO membership, territorial games |
| `within(point, target, radius)` | Proof-of-visit, event check-ins |
| `intersects(a, b)` | Overlapping territories, coverage verification |

Combined with EAS resolvers, these primitives unlock an entirely new design space for Ethereum applications.

<Card title="Get Started" icon="rocket" href="/quickstart">
  Build your first location-based dApp
</Card>

Commit message:

docs: restructure location proof documentation
Consolidate and simplify the location proof documentation based on
feedback:

- Create unified concepts/location-proofs.mdx covering the framework,
  evidence categories, plugins, and verification flow
- Add infrastructure location proofs as a subsection (not separate page)
- Rewrite agent-location-verification.mdx with correct flow: evidence
  collection from plugins → artifact signing → Astral Verify evaluation
- Remove code snippets (coming soon with implementation)
- Add brief local-scale blockchains section to use-cases.mdx
- Remove sovereign-chain-integration.mdx (too detailed for current stage)
- Remove city-chains.mdx (consolidated into use-cases)

The documentation now accurately reflects the location proof framework
with plugins for different contexts (user devices, infrastructure) and
the Astral Verify module for evidence evaluation.

https://claude.ai/code/session_0148DGGzkcppJ3yoWQCSREfk

use-cases.mdx, after:

---
title: "Use Cases"
description: "What you can build with location-based smart contracts"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — These examples demonstrate the intended patterns.
</Warning>

# What You Can Build

Astral Location Services enables a new category of decentralized applications: **location-based smart contracts**. By combining geospatial computation with EAS resolvers, you can gate any onchain action by real-world location.

## The Pattern

<Steps>
  <Step title="User proves location">
    Creates a location attestation (or submits raw coordinates)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Astral computes">
    Performs spatial operation (distance, containment, etc.) in TEE
  </Step>
  <Step title="Signed result">
    Returns Policy Attestation with computation result
  </Step>
  <Step title="Contract executes">
    Resolver verifies and triggers business logic
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Local Currencies

**Concept:** Token pairs that can only be traded by people physically in a region.

Create neighborhood economies where you must be present to participate. SF residents trade BAY tokens, NYC residents trade APPLE tokens.

```typescript
// User in San Francisco
const myLocation = await astral.location.create(userGPS);
const eligibility = await astral.compute.contains(
  sfBayAreaUID,
  myLocation.uid,
  { schema: GEOGATED_SWAP_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);
// Resolver verifies location → executes swap atomically
```

**Ideas:**
- Neighborhood currencies
- Regional stablecoins
- Tourism tokens (only tradeable in the city)
- Event-specific tokens (festival currency)

---

## Neighborhood DAOs

**Concept:** Governance tokens only mintable by residents of a specific area.

```typescript
const noeValleyDAO = new GeogatedDAO({
  region: noeValleyPolygonUID,
  tokenName: "Noe Valley Governance"
});

// Prove you live/work in the neighborhood
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  noeValleyPolygonUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: DAO_MEMBERSHIP_SCHEMA }
);
await noeValleyDAO.join(proof);

// Vote on local issues
await noeValleyDAO.vote(proposalId, voteChoice);
```

**Ideas:**
- Community governance
- Co-op management
- Neighborhood resource allocation
- Local mutual aid networks

---

## Proof-of-Visit NFTs

**Concept:** Collectibles you can only mint by physically visiting a location.

```typescript
// Prove you're at the Eiffel Tower
const proof = await astral.compute.within(
  myLocationUID,
  eiffelTowerUID,
  100,  // within 100 meters
  { schema: VISIT_NFT_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);

// Resolver mints NFT if you're close enough
```

**Ideas:**
- Travel badges (collect cities/landmarks)
- Conference attendance proofs
- Scavenger hunts with onchain checkpoints
- Historical site verification

---

## Delivery Verification

**Concept:** Escrow that releases only when package arrives at the right location.

```solidity
contract DeliveryEscrow {
    bytes32 public deliveryZoneUID;

    function confirmDelivery(
        bytes32 policyAttestationUID
    ) public {
        Attestation memory att = eas.getAttestation(policyAttestationUID);

        // Verify attester
        require(att.attester == astralSigner, "Not from Astral");

        // Check: was delivery location inside the delivery zone?
        (bool wasInZone, , , ) = abi.decode(
            att.data,
            (bool, bytes32[], uint64, string)
        );

        require(wasInZone, "Wrong delivery location");
        escrow.release();
    }
}
```

**Ideas:**
- P2P delivery marketplaces
- Supply chain verification
- Last-mile logistics
- Food delivery with location proof

---

## Event Check-Ins

**Concept:** POAPs, rewards, or access that require physical presence.

```typescript
// At a conference
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  conferenceVenueUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: EVENT_SCHEMA, submitOnchain: true }
);

// Resolver grants access/mints POAP
```

**Ideas:**
- Conference attendance tracking
- Concert/festival badges
- Meetup verification
- Sports event proof-of-attendance

---

## Proximity-Weighted Voting

**Concept:** Vote weight increases the closer you are to what's being voted on.

```solidity
function vote(uint proposalId, bytes32 policyAttestationUID) public {
    // Decode distance from numeric policy attestation
    (uint256 distanceCm, , , , ) = abi.decode(...);
    uint256 distanceM = distanceCm / 100;

    // Closer = more voting power
    uint256 weight = 1000 / (distanceM + 1);
    proposals[proposalId].voteWithWeight(msg.sender, weight);
}
```

**Ideas:**
- Local infrastructure decisions
- Park/facility usage votes
- Noise ordinance voting
- Development impact assessment

---

## Location-Based Marketplaces

**Concept:** Buy/sell only from people in your area.

```typescript
// List item (seller must be in region)
const sellerProof = await astral.compute.contains(
  regionUID,
  sellerLocationUID,
  { schema: MARKETPLACE_SCHEMA }
);
await marketplace.list(itemId, price, sellerProof);

// Buy item (buyer must be nearby seller)
const proximityProof = await astral.compute.within(
  buyerLocationUID,
  sellerLocationUID,
  5000,  // within 5km
  { schema: MARKETPLACE_SCHEMA }
);
await marketplace.buy(itemId, proximityProof);
```

**Ideas:**
- Hyperlocal classifieds
- Farmers markets with verified vendors
- Tool/equipment sharing
- Local services marketplace

---

## Location-Based Games

**Concept:** Onchain gameplay tied to real-world movement.

```typescript
// Capture territory
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  territoryUID,
  myLocationUID,
  { schema: GAME_SCHEMA }
);
await game.capture(territoryId, proof);

// Battle (only if players are nearby)
const proximityProof = await astral.compute.distance(
  player1LocationUID,
  player2LocationUID,
  { schema: GAME_SCHEMA }
);
if (proximityProof.result < 100) {
  await game.battle(opponent, proximityProof);
}
```

**Ideas:**
- Territory control games
- AR treasure hunts
- Geocaching with tokens
- Location-based battles

---

## Environmental Monitoring

**Concept:** Carbon credits and conservation proofs tied to physical locations.

```typescript
// Verify tree planting at specified location
const proof = await astral.compute.contains(
  conservationZoneUID,
  plantingSiteUID,
  { schema: CARBON_SCHEMA }
);

await carbonRegistry.registerPlanting(proof, treeCount);
// Mint carbon credits
```

**Ideas:**
- Reforestation verification
- Wildlife habitat monitoring
- Pollution reporting
- Community garden tracking

---

## Local-Scale Blockchains

**Concept:** Low-latency blockchain infrastructure tied to specific geographic regions.

Some blockchain applications benefit from infrastructure that's geographically constrained — city-scale networks, regional chains, or local-first systems where physical proximity matters for latency, governance, or regulatory reasons.

Location proofs enable these systems to verify that validators, sequencers, or nodes actually operate within the target region. This provides:

- **Validator distribution verification** — Prove that network operators are geographically where they claim to be
- **Data sovereignty guarantees** — Ensure processing happens within required jurisdictions
- **Latency-aware infrastructure** — Verify that nodes serving a region actually operate there
- **Local governance participation** — Gate voting or participation to verified regional presence

**Ideas:**
- Municipal blockchain networks with in-city validators
- Regional financial infrastructure meeting local regulatory requirements
- Community networks with verified local operators
- Low-latency gaming or trading infrastructure with geographic guarantees

---

## The Building Blocks

All of these are built with just a few core operations:

| Operation | Use Case Examples |
|-----------|-------------------|
| `distance(a, b)` | Proximity voting, delivery verification |
| `contains(area, point)` | Geofencing, DAO membership, territorial games |
| `within(point, target, radius)` | Proof-of-visit, event check-ins |
| `intersects(a, b)` | Overlapping territories, coverage verification |

Combined with EAS resolvers, these primitives unlock an entirely new design space for Ethereum applications.

<Card title="Get Started" icon="rocket" href="/quickstart">
  Build your first location-based dApp
</Card>
