resources/playground.mdx, before:

---
title: "Playground"
description: "Interactive tool for exploring geospatial operations"
---

The [Astral Playground](https://playground.astral.global) lets you experiment with geospatial operations before integrating them into your application.

## Modes

### Preview Mode

Test operations with instant visual feedback. Results are computed locally using Turf.js for a quick approximation.

1. Select an operation from the dropdown
2. Drag markers or draw shapes on the map
3. See the preview result update in real-time
4. Click **Get Verified Result** to compute via PostGIS

### Policy Builder Mode

Create and publish attestations onchain.

1. Switch to **Policy Builder** tab
2. Connect your wallet
3. Select your target chain (Base Sepolia, Sepolia, Base, or Ethereum)
4. Enter a schema UID (defaults provided for numeric/boolean operations)
5. Configure your geometries
6. Click **Get Verified Result** to compute
7. Click **Publish to Chain** to submit the attestation via EAS

## Operations

| Operation | What it does | Inputs |
|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Distance** | Meters between two points | 2 points |
| **Within** | Is point A within radius of point B? | 2 points + radius (m) |
| **Contains** | Is the point inside the polygon? | polygon + point |
| **Intersects** | Do geometries overlap? | 2 geometries |
| **Area** | Square meters of a polygon | polygon |
| **Length** | Meters of a line | linestring |

## Working with the Map

**Points** — Drag markers directly on the map.

**Polygons & Lines** — Enable **map editing** to use drawing tools:
- Click the polygon/line tool in the top-left
- Click to place vertices
- Double-click to finish
- Click vertices to edit, drag to move

## GeoJSON Editor

The **GeoJSON** tab lets you paste or edit geometries directly:

```json
{
  "type": "Point",
  "coordinates": [-122.4194, 37.7749]
}
```

Supported types: `Point`, `Polygon`, `LineString`.

## Code Snippets

The **SDK** and **cURL** tabs show integration code that updates as you configure your operation. Copy these directly into your project.

<Card title="Quickstart" icon="rocket" href="/quickstart">
  Ready to integrate? Follow the quickstart guide.
</Card>

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive review updates
- Change all "Development Preview" to "Research Preview"
- Update introduction with geofencing oracle framing
- Rewrite trust model as two-part (input truthfulness vs computation correctness)
- Replace ASCII diagrams with mermaid diagrams throughout
- Update location-attestations to "Location Records" concept
- Rename geofenced-token guide to "Local Currency", change SF to Berlin
- Add execution context to delivery-verification code snippets
- Add Astral Signer Address prominently in security docs
- Update roadmap to reflect current deployment status
- Fix SDK compute.mdx "Next" link to point to EAS Integration
- Simplify migration.mdx (remove "unified SDK" language)
- Update all API reference pages to Research Preview
- Add link to Astral API repo in Records API overview
- Update staging title to just "Staging"
- Update favicon

resources/playground.mdx, after:

---
title: "Playground"
description: "Interactive tool for exploring geospatial operations"
---

The [Astral Playground](https://playground.astral.global) lets you experiment with geospatial operations before integrating them into your application.

## Modes

### Preview Mode

Test operations with instant visual feedback. Results are computed locally using Turf.js for a quick approximation.

<Note>
  Preview mode results may not exactly match verified results due to differences in how Turf.js and PostGIS perform geospatial computations, but they should be approximately the same.
</Note>

1. Select an operation from the dropdown
2. Drag markers or draw shapes on the map
3. See the preview result update in real-time
4. Click **Get Verified Result** to compute via PostGIS

### Policy Builder Mode

Create and publish attestations onchain.

1. Switch to **Policy Builder** tab
2. Connect your wallet
3. Select your target chain (Base Sepolia, Sepolia, Base, or Ethereum)
4. Enter a schema UID (defaults provided for numeric/boolean operations)
5. Configure your geometries
6. Click **Get Verified Result** to compute
7. Click **Publish to Chain** to submit the attestation via EAS

## Operations

| Operation | What it does | Inputs |
|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Distance** | Meters between two points | 2 points |
| **Within** | Is point A within radius of point B? | 2 points + radius (m) |
| **Contains** | Is the point inside the polygon? | polygon + point |
| **Intersects** | Do geometries overlap? | 2 geometries |
| **Area** | Square meters of a polygon | polygon |
| **Length** | Meters of a line | linestring |

## Working with the Map

**Points** — Drag markers directly on the map.

**Polygons & Lines** — Enable **map editing** to use drawing tools:
- Click the polygon/line tool in the top-left
- Click to place vertices
- Double-click to finish
- Click vertices to edit, drag to move

## GeoJSON Editor

The **GeoJSON** tab lets you paste or edit geometries directly:

```json
{
  "type": "Point",
  "coordinates": [-122.4194, 37.7749]
}
```

Supported types: `Point`, `Polygon`, `LineString`.

## Code Snippets

The **SDK** and **cURL** tabs show integration code that updates as you configure your operation. Copy these directly into your project.

<Card title="Quickstart" icon="rocket" href="/quickstart">
  Ready to integrate? Follow the quickstart guide.
</Card>
