resources/schemas.mdx, before:

---
title: "Schemas"
description: "EAS schema definitions for Astral attestations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — Schema UIDs will be published when deployed.
</Warning>

# EAS Schemas

Astral Location Services uses the Ethereum Attestation Service (EAS) for all attestations. This page documents the schema definitions.

## Location Attestation Schema

Used for storing spatial data (points, polygons, routes).

```
bytes geometry, string geometryType, string srs, bytes properties
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `geometry` | bytes | Encoded GeoJSON geometry |
| `geometryType` | string | "Point", "Polygon", "LineString", etc. |
| `srs` | string | Spatial reference system (default: "EPSG:4326") |
| `properties` | bytes | JSON-encoded metadata |

---

## Policy Attestation Schemas

Output schemas for geospatial computations.

### BooleanPolicyAttestation

For predicate operations (`contains`, `within`, `intersects`).

```
bool result, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `result` | bool | The boolean computation result |
| `inputRefs` | bytes32[] | References to inputs (UIDs or hashes) |
| `timestamp` | uint64 | Unix timestamp of computation |
| `operation` | string | Operation name ("contains", "within", "intersects") |

### NumericPolicyAttestation

For measurement operations (`distance`, `length`, `area`).

```
uint256 result, string units, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `result` | uint256 | Scaled integer result (centimeters or cm²) |
| `units` | string | Base unit ("meters" or "square_meters") |
| `inputRefs` | bytes32[] | References to inputs |
| `timestamp` | uint64 | Unix timestamp of computation |
| `operation` | string | Operation name ("distance", "length", "area") |

### GeometryPolicyAttestation (Future)

For transformation operations (`buffer`, `centroid`, `union`).

```
bytes geometry, string geometryType, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

---

## Input References

The `inputRefs` array contains a `bytes32` for each input:

| Input Type | Reference |
|------------|-----------|
| Onchain attestation | The UID |
| Offchain attestation | The UID |
| Raw GeoJSON | `keccak256(abi.encode(geojson))` |

This enables verification that specific inputs were used:

```solidity
(bool result, bytes32[] memory inputRefs, , ) = abi.decode(...);

// Verify expected landmark was checked
require(inputRefs[1] == EXPECTED_LANDMARK_UID, "Wrong location");
```

---

## Result Scaling

Numeric results are stored as scaled integers:

| Measurement | Storage | Conversion |
|-------------|---------|------------|
| Distance | centimeters | `meters = result / 100` |
| Length | centimeters | `meters = result / 100` |
| Area | square centimeters | `m² = result / 10000` |

```solidity
// In your resolver
(uint256 resultCm, , , , ) = abi.decode(...);
uint256 meters = resultCm / 100;
```

---

## Decoding in Solidity

### Boolean Policy

```solidity
function decodeBooleanPolicy(bytes memory data) public pure returns (
    bool result,
    bytes32[] memory inputRefs,
    uint64 timestamp,
    string memory operation
) {
    return abi.decode(data, (bool, bytes32[], uint64, string));
}
```

### Numeric Policy

```solidity
function decodeNumericPolicy(bytes memory data) public pure returns (
    uint256 result,
    string memory units,
    bytes32[] memory inputRefs,
    uint64 timestamp,
    string memory operation
) {
    return abi.decode(data, (uint256, string, bytes32[], uint64, string));
}
```

---

## Schema Registry

Schemas are registered in the EAS SchemaRegistry. When deploying your resolver:

```typescript
import { SchemaRegistry } from '@ethereum-attestation-service/eas-sdk';

const registry = new SchemaRegistry(REGISTRY_ADDRESS);

// Register schema with your resolver
const tx = await registry.connect(signer).register({
  schema: "bool result,bytes32[] inputRefs,uint64 timestamp,string operation",
  resolverAddress: yourResolver.address,
  revocable: false
});

const receipt = await tx.wait();
const schemaUID = receipt.logs[0].args.uid;
```

<Card title="Next: Security" icon="shield" href="/resources/security">
  Security considerations
</Card>

Commit message:

docs(schemas): add default UIDs section and fix revocable flag
- Add placeholder section for default pre-registered schema UIDs
- Fix schema registry example to use revocable: true
- Document that operation strings include parameters (e.g., "within:500")
- Clarify difference between default schemas and custom resolver schemas

Addresses parts of #6 and #7

resources/schemas.mdx, after:

---
title: "Schemas"
description: "EAS schema definitions for Astral attestations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — Schema UIDs will be published when deployed.
</Warning>

# EAS Schemas

Astral Location Services uses the Ethereum Attestation Service (EAS) for all attestations. This page documents the schema definitions.

## Location Attestation Schema

Used for storing spatial data (points, polygons, routes).

```
bytes geometry, string geometryType, string srs, bytes properties
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `geometry` | bytes | Encoded GeoJSON geometry |
| `geometryType` | string | "Point", "Polygon", "LineString", etc. |
| `srs` | string | Spatial reference system (default: "EPSG:4326") |
| `properties` | bytes | JSON-encoded metadata |

---

## Policy Attestation Schemas

Output schemas for geospatial computations.

### BooleanPolicyAttestation

For predicate operations (`contains`, `within`, `intersects`).

```
bool result, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `result` | bool | The boolean computation result |
| `inputRefs` | bytes32[] | References to inputs (UIDs or hashes) |
| `timestamp` | uint64 | Unix timestamp of computation |
| `operation` | string | Operation with parameters (e.g., "within:500", "contains") |

### NumericPolicyAttestation

For measurement operations (`distance`, `length`, `area`).

```
uint256 result, string units, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `result` | uint256 | Scaled integer result (centimeters or cm²) |
| `units` | string | Base unit ("meters" or "square_meters") |
| `inputRefs` | bytes32[] | References to inputs |
| `timestamp` | uint64 | Unix timestamp of computation |
| `operation` | string | Operation with parameters (e.g., "distance", "area") |

### GeometryPolicyAttestation (Future)

For transformation operations (`buffer`, `centroid`, `union`).

```
bytes geometry, string geometryType, bytes32[] inputRefs, uint64 timestamp, string operation
```

<Note>
  **Operation strings include parameters** — For example, the `within` operation returns `"within:500"` (including the radius), not just `"within"`. Resolver contracts should use prefix matching when validating operations.
</Note>

---

## Default Schema UIDs

Astral provides pre-registered schemas without resolver contracts for general use. Use these when you don't need custom validation logic.

### Base Sepolia (84532)

| Schema | UID | Use For |
|--------|-----|---------|
| BooleanPolicyAttestation | *Coming soon* | `contains`, `within`, `intersects` |
| NumericPolicyAttestation | *Coming soon* | `distance`, `length`, `area` |
| Location | *Coming soon* | Location attestations |

<Info>
  **Custom schemas**: If you need a resolver contract for custom validation (like the Location-Gated NFT), register your own schema with the same field types. The schema UID will be different, but the data encoding is identical.
</Info>

---

## Input References

The `inputRefs` array contains a `bytes32` for each input:

| Input Type | Reference |
|------------|-----------|
| Onchain attestation | The UID |
| Offchain attestation | The UID |
| Raw GeoJSON | `keccak256(abi.encode(geojson))` |

This enables verification that specific inputs were used:

```solidity
(bool result, bytes32[] memory inputRefs, , ) = abi.decode(...);

// Verify expected landmark was checked
require(inputRefs[1] == EXPECTED_LANDMARK_UID, "Wrong location");
```

---

## Result Scaling

Numeric results are stored as scaled integers:

| Measurement | Storage | Conversion |
|-------------|---------|------------|
| Distance | centimeters | `meters = result / 100` |
| Length | centimeters | `meters = result / 100` |
| Area | square centimeters | `m² = result / 10000` |

```solidity
// In your resolver
(uint256 resultCm, , , , ) = abi.decode(...);
uint256 meters = resultCm / 100;
```

---

## Decoding in Solidity

### Boolean Policy

```solidity
function decodeBooleanPolicy(bytes memory data) public pure returns (
    bool result,
    bytes32[] memory inputRefs,
    uint64 timestamp,
    string memory operation
) {
    return abi.decode(data, (bool, bytes32[], uint64, string));
}
```

### Numeric Policy

```solidity
function decodeNumericPolicy(bytes memory data) public pure returns (
    uint256 result,
    string memory units,
    bytes32[] memory inputRefs,
    uint64 timestamp,
    string memory operation
) {
    return abi.decode(data, (uint256, string, bytes32[], uint64, string));
}
```

---

## Schema Registry

Schemas are registered in the EAS SchemaRegistry. When deploying your resolver:

```typescript
import { SchemaRegistry } from '@ethereum-attestation-service/eas-sdk';

const registry = new SchemaRegistry(REGISTRY_ADDRESS);

// Register schema with your resolver
// IMPORTANT: Use revocable: true - Astral signs with revocable=true
const tx = await registry.connect(signer).register({
  schema: "bool result,bytes32[] inputRefs,uint64 timestamp,string operation",
  resolverAddress: yourResolver.address,
  revocable: true
});

const receipt = await tx.wait();
const schemaUID = receipt.logs[0].args.uid;
```

<Card title="Next: Security" icon="shield" href="/resources/security">
  Security considerations
</Card>
