concepts/location-proofs.mdx, before:

---
title: "Location Proofs"
description: "Cryptographic verification of location evidence"
---

<Warning>
  **Research Preview** — Under active development.
</Warning>

# Location Proofs

Location Proofs provide **cryptographic verification** that a subject was at a claimed location during a claimed time. Unlike [Location Records](/concepts/location-attestations), which are simply signed spatial data, Location Proofs assess the **credibility of evidence** supporting a location claim.

## How It Differs from Geospatial Operations

| [Geospatial Operations](/concepts/geospatial-operations) | Location Proofs |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| Computes spatial relationships | Assesses evidence credibility |
| Input: geometries (claimed or attested) | Input: location claim + evidence |
| Output: distance, area, contains, etc. | Output: credibility vector |
| "Is point A inside polygon B?" | "How confident are we that X was at location L?" |

**Geospatial Operations** answer spatial questions. **Location Proofs** answer trust questions.

## Core Concepts

### Location Claims

A **Location Claim** is an assertion that a subject was within a spatial region during a time interval:

```typescript
interface LocationClaim {
  subject: {
    scheme: string;              // "eth-address" | "device-pubkey"
    value: string;               // The identifier
  };
  spatialRegion: {
    center: [number, number];    // [longitude, latitude]
    radius: number;              // meters
  };
  temporalRange: {
    start: number;               // Unix timestamp
    end: number;                 // Unix timestamp
  };
}
```

<Note>
  Claims use **ranges, not points** — both spatially and temporally. You cannot prove presence at an exact point in space or time. Larger ranges increase confidence but decrease precision.
</Note>

### Location Stamps

A **Location Stamp** is evidence from a proof-of-location system. Stamps are **independent of claims** — they capture where and when evidence was collected, not what is being claimed.

```typescript
interface LocationStamp {
  plugin: string;                        // "proofmode" | "witnesschain"
  version: string;
  spatialFootprint: GeoJSON.Geometry;    // Where evidence indicates
  temporalFootprint: {
    start: number;
    end: number;
  };
  signals: Record<string, unknown>;      // Raw evidence data
  signatures: Signature[];               // Cryptographic binding
}
```

Stamps can come from different **plugins**:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="ProofMode" icon="mobile">
    - Device-based attestation
    - GPS + sensor fusion
    - Hardware attestation (Secure Enclave)
    - Best for: consumer devices
  </Card>
  <Card title="WitnessChain" icon="server">
    - Infrastructure-based verification
    - Network latency triangulation
    - Challenger network attestations
    - Best for: servers and nodes
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

### Verification

**Verification** answers: *Does the evidence support the claim?*

```
Claim:    [spatial_region] × [temporal_range]
Evidence: [spatial_footprint] × [temporal_footprint]
          ↓
Verification: assess overlap, check signatures, evaluate consistency
          ↓
Output:   credibility vector
```

The output is a **Credibility Vector** — a multidimensional assessment of how well evidence supports the claim.

## The Uncertainty Tradeoff

Location proofs inherently involve uncertainty:

- **Spatial uncertainty**: GPS has ~5m error, network triangulation ~50-500m
- **Temporal uncertainty**: Sensor readings take time to collect

The fundamental tradeoff:

```
Larger margins = Higher confidence, Lower precision
Smaller margins = Lower confidence, Higher precision
```

A claim of "within 100km sometime in 2024" is easy to verify but useless. A claim of "within 5m at exactly 14:32:07" is precise but nearly impossible to verify with high confidence.

**Applications decide** what precision/confidence balance they need.

## Multi-Factor Proofs

Multiple stamps from **independent, uncorrelated systems** create stronger proofs:

```typescript
// Single stamp: moderate confidence
const singleStamp = await astral.stamps.collect('proofmode');
const result1 = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, singleStamp);
// result1.credibility.confidence → 0.7

// Multi-stamp: higher confidence
const proofmodeStamp = await collectAndSign('proofmode');
const witnessStamp = await collectAndSign('witnesschain');
const proof = astral.stamps.bundle([proofmodeStamp, witnessStamp]);

const result2 = await astral.verify.proof({ claim, stamps: proof });
// result2.credibility.confidence → 0.9
// result2.credibility.correlation.independence → 0.95 (different systems)
// result2.credibility.correlation.corroboration → 0.85 (they agree)
```

<Info>
  **Key principle**: Independent, corroborating evidence is worth more than redundant evidence. Two GPS readings add little. GPS + network triangulation adds a lot.
</Info>

## Credibility Vector

Verification outputs a **Credibility Vector** — not just a binary yes/no:

```typescript
interface CredibilityVector {
  confidence: number;           // 0-1 overall score
  dimensions: {
    // Extensible — specific dimensions TBD
    [key: string]: number;
  };
  stampResults: StampVerificationResult[];
  correlation?: {
    independence: number;       // Are sources uncorrelated?
    corroboration: number;      // Do sources agree?
  };
}
```

This enables **application-specific trust policies**:

```typescript
// High-security application
if (result.credibility.confidence < 0.9) {
  throw new Error('Insufficient location proof');
}

// Casual check-in application
if (result.credibility.confidence < 0.5) {
  throw new Error('Location unverified');
}
```

## SDK Usage

<Note>
  **Code snippets need testing** — Verify against actual implementation before use.
</Note>

### Collecting Evidence (Client-Side)

```typescript
import { astral } from '@astral/sdk';

// Collect signals using a plugin
const signals = await astral.stamps.collect('proofmode', {
  timeout: 5000
});

// Create and sign the stamp
const unsigned = await astral.stamps.create('proofmode', signals);
const stamp = await astral.stamps.sign(unsigned, deviceSigner);
```

### Verifying a Claim

```typescript
// Create a claim
const claim = astral.verify.createClaim({
  subject: { scheme: 'eth-address', value: '0x...' },
  location: { center: [-122.4194, 37.7749], radius: 100 },
  time: { start: Date.now() - 60000, end: Date.now() }
});

// Verify single stamp
const result = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, stamp);

console.log(result.credibility.confidence);  // 0.85
console.log(result.attestation.uid);         // 0xabc123...
```

### Multi-Stamp Verification

```typescript
// Bundle multiple stamps
const proof = astral.stamps.bundle([proofmodeStamp, witnessStamp]);

// Verify the bundle
const result = await astral.verify.proof({
  claim,
  stamps: proof
});

// Access correlation analysis
console.log(result.credibility.correlation.independence);
console.log(result.credibility.correlation.corroboration);
```

## Integration with Compute

Verified Location Proofs can be used as **inputs** to [Geospatial Operations](/concepts/geospatial-operations):

```typescript
// Verify a user's location first
const verifiedProof = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, stamp);

// Use verified location in a geospatial operation
const result = await astral.compute.contains({
  container: sfBayAreaPolygonUID,
  geometry: { verifiedProof: verifiedProof.attestation.uid },
  chainId: 84532,
  schema: SCHEMA_UID
});
```

<Info>
  The Compute module accepts both verified and unverified location inputs. Applications decide their trust requirements.
</Info>

## Output: Verified Location Proof

The final output is an **EAS attestation** containing the credibility assessment:

```typescript
interface VerifiedLocationProof {
  claim: LocationClaim;
  credibility: CredibilityVector;
  evidenceRefs: string[];        // UIDs/URIs of stamps
  attestation: {
    uid: string;
    attester: string;            // Astral service key
    timestamp: number;
    chainId: number;
  };
}
```

This attestation can be:
- Referenced by smart contracts for onchain logic
- Used as input to Geospatial Operations
- Stored for audit trails

## Security Model

### Trust Assumptions

| Plugin | Trust Assumption |
|--------|-----------------|
| ProofMode | Device TEE/Secure Enclave is not compromised |
| WitnessChain | Speed-of-light constraints hold; majority of challengers honest |

### Forgery Resistance

Per the [Flashbots research](https://collective.flashbots.net/t/towards-stronger-location-proofs/5323):

> "The anticipated cost of faking all contributing signals should outweigh potential gains."

Multi-factor proofs from independent systems raise the forgery cost. Application developers should assess whether the credibility level meets their security requirements.

<Card title="Next: Geospatial Operations" icon="calculator" href="/concepts/geospatial-operations">
  Learn about spatial computations on location data
</Card>

Commit message:

docs: generalize LocationStamp to include indirect evidence

concepts/location-proofs.mdx, after:

---
title: "Location Proofs"
description: "Cryptographic verification of location evidence"
---

<Warning>
  **Research Preview** — Under active development.
</Warning>

# Location Proofs

Location Proofs provide **cryptographic verification** that a subject was at a claimed location during a claimed time. Unlike [Location Records](/concepts/location-attestations), which are simply signed spatial data, Location Proofs assess the **credibility of evidence** supporting a location claim.

## How It Differs from Geospatial Operations

| [Geospatial Operations](/concepts/geospatial-operations) | Location Proofs |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| Computes spatial relationships | Assesses evidence credibility |
| Input: geometries (claimed or attested) | Input: location claim + evidence |
| Output: distance, area, contains, etc. | Output: credibility vector |
| "Is point A inside polygon B?" | "How confident are we that X was at location L?" |

**Geospatial Operations** answer spatial questions. **Location Proofs** answer trust questions.

## Core Concepts

### Location Claims

A **Location Claim** is an assertion that a subject was within a spatial region during a time interval:

```typescript
interface LocationClaim {
  subject: {
    scheme: string;              // "eth-address" | "device-pubkey"
    value: string;               // The identifier
  };
  spatialRegion: {
    center: [number, number];    // [longitude, latitude]
    radius: number;              // meters
  };
  temporalRange: {
    start: number;               // Unix timestamp
    end: number;                 // Unix timestamp
  };
}
```

<Note>
  Claims use **ranges, not points** — both spatially and temporally. You cannot prove presence at an exact point in space or time. Larger ranges increase confidence but decrease precision.
</Note>

### Location Stamps

A **Location Stamp** is evidence from a proof-of-location system. Stamps are **independent of claims** — they provide evidence supporting a spatiotemporal assertion. This evidence may come from:

- **Direct observation**: GPS readings, sensor data, network measurements
- **Indirect/derived sources**: Documents, records, institutional attestations (e.g., address from a bank statement)

```typescript
interface LocationStamp {
  plugin: string;                        // "proofmode" | "witnesschain"
  version: string;
  spatialFootprint: GeoJSON.Geometry;    // Where evidence indicates
  temporalFootprint: {
    start: number;
    end: number;
  };
  signals: Record<string, unknown>;      // Raw evidence data
  signatures: Signature[];               // Cryptographic binding
}
```

Stamps can come from different **plugins**:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="ProofMode" icon="mobile">
    - Device-based attestation
    - GPS + sensor fusion
    - Hardware attestation (Secure Enclave)
    - Best for: consumer devices
  </Card>
  <Card title="WitnessChain" icon="server">
    - Infrastructure-based verification
    - Network latency triangulation
    - Challenger network attestations
    - Best for: servers and nodes
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

### Verification

**Verification** answers: *Does the evidence support the claim?*

```
Claim:    [spatial_region] × [temporal_range]
Evidence: [spatial_footprint] × [temporal_footprint]
          ↓
Verification: assess overlap, check signatures, evaluate consistency
          ↓
Output:   credibility vector
```

The output is a **Credibility Vector** — a multidimensional assessment of how well evidence supports the claim.

## The Uncertainty Tradeoff

Location proofs inherently involve uncertainty:

- **Spatial uncertainty**: GPS has ~5m error, network triangulation ~50-500m
- **Temporal uncertainty**: Sensor readings take time to collect

The fundamental tradeoff:

```
Larger margins = Higher confidence, Lower precision
Smaller margins = Lower confidence, Higher precision
```

A claim of "within 100km sometime in 2024" is easy to verify but useless. A claim of "within 5m at exactly 14:32:07" is precise but nearly impossible to verify with high confidence.

**Applications decide** what precision/confidence balance they need.

## Multi-Factor Proofs

Multiple stamps from **independent, uncorrelated systems** create stronger proofs:

```typescript
// Single stamp: moderate confidence
const singleStamp = await astral.stamps.collect('proofmode');
const result1 = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, singleStamp);
// result1.credibility.confidence → 0.7

// Multi-stamp: higher confidence
const proofmodeStamp = await collectAndSign('proofmode');
const witnessStamp = await collectAndSign('witnesschain');
const proof = astral.stamps.bundle([proofmodeStamp, witnessStamp]);

const result2 = await astral.verify.proof({ claim, stamps: proof });
// result2.credibility.confidence → 0.9
// result2.credibility.correlation.independence → 0.95 (different systems)
// result2.credibility.correlation.corroboration → 0.85 (they agree)
```

<Info>
  **Key principle**: Independent, corroborating evidence is worth more than redundant evidence. Two GPS readings add little. GPS + network triangulation adds a lot.
</Info>

## Credibility Vector

Verification outputs a **Credibility Vector** — not just a binary yes/no:

```typescript
interface CredibilityVector {
  confidence: number;           // 0-1 overall score
  dimensions: {
    // Extensible — specific dimensions TBD
    [key: string]: number;
  };
  stampResults: StampVerificationResult[];
  correlation?: {
    independence: number;       // Are sources uncorrelated?
    corroboration: number;      // Do sources agree?
  };
}
```

This enables **application-specific trust policies**:

```typescript
// High-security application
if (result.credibility.confidence < 0.9) {
  throw new Error('Insufficient location proof');
}

// Casual check-in application
if (result.credibility.confidence < 0.5) {
  throw new Error('Location unverified');
}
```

## SDK Usage

<Note>
  **Code snippets need testing** — Verify against actual implementation before use.
</Note>

### Collecting Evidence (Client-Side)

```typescript
import { astral } from '@astral/sdk';

// Collect signals using a plugin
const signals = await astral.stamps.collect('proofmode', {
  timeout: 5000
});

// Create and sign the stamp
const unsigned = await astral.stamps.create('proofmode', signals);
const stamp = await astral.stamps.sign(unsigned, deviceSigner);
```

### Verifying a Claim

```typescript
// Create a claim
const claim = astral.verify.createClaim({
  subject: { scheme: 'eth-address', value: '0x...' },
  location: { center: [-122.4194, 37.7749], radius: 100 },
  time: { start: Date.now() - 60000, end: Date.now() }
});

// Verify single stamp
const result = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, stamp);

console.log(result.credibility.confidence);  // 0.85
console.log(result.attestation.uid);         // 0xabc123...
```

### Multi-Stamp Verification

```typescript
// Bundle multiple stamps
const proof = astral.stamps.bundle([proofmodeStamp, witnessStamp]);

// Verify the bundle
const result = await astral.verify.proof({
  claim,
  stamps: proof
});

// Access correlation analysis
console.log(result.credibility.correlation.independence);
console.log(result.credibility.correlation.corroboration);
```

## Integration with Compute

Verified Location Proofs can be used as **inputs** to [Geospatial Operations](/concepts/geospatial-operations):

```typescript
// Verify a user's location first
const verifiedProof = await astral.verify.stamp(claim, stamp);

// Use verified location in a geospatial operation
const result = await astral.compute.contains({
  container: sfBayAreaPolygonUID,
  geometry: { verifiedProof: verifiedProof.attestation.uid },
  chainId: 84532,
  schema: SCHEMA_UID
});
```

<Info>
  The Compute module accepts both verified and unverified location inputs. Applications decide their trust requirements.
</Info>

## Output: Verified Location Proof

The final output is an **EAS attestation** containing the credibility assessment:

```typescript
interface VerifiedLocationProof {
  claim: LocationClaim;
  credibility: CredibilityVector;
  evidenceRefs: string[];        // UIDs/URIs of stamps
  attestation: {
    uid: string;
    attester: string;            // Astral service key
    timestamp: number;
    chainId: number;
  };
}
```

This attestation can be:
- Referenced by smart contracts for onchain logic
- Used as input to Geospatial Operations
- Stored for audit trails

## Security Model

### Trust Assumptions

| Plugin | Trust Assumption |
|--------|-----------------|
| ProofMode | Device TEE/Secure Enclave is not compromised |
| WitnessChain | Speed-of-light constraints hold; majority of challengers honest |

### Forgery Resistance

Per the [Flashbots research](https://collective.flashbots.net/t/towards-stronger-location-proofs/5323):

> "The anticipated cost of faking all contributing signals should outweigh potential gains."

Multi-factor proofs from independent systems raise the forgery cost. Application developers should assess whether the credibility level meets their security requirements.

<Card title="Next: Geospatial Operations" icon="calculator" href="/concepts/geospatial-operations">
  Learn about spatial computations on location data
</Card>
