concepts/location-attestations.mdx, before:

---
title: "Location Attestations"
description: "Signed spatial records that serve as inputs to geospatial operations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — This describes the target specification.
</Warning>

# Location Attestations

Location Attestations are **signed spatial records** that conform to the [Location Protocol](https://easierdata.org/updates/2025/2025-05-19-location-protocol-spec) schema. They can represent points, polygons, routes, or any GeoJSON geometry.

## What is a Location Attestation?

A Location Attestation is an EAS attestation containing:

- **Geometry**: The spatial data (GeoJSON format)
- **Metadata**: Optional descriptive information
- **Signature**: Cryptographic proof of the attester's identity

```typescript
// Creating a location attestation
const landmark = await astral.location.create({
  type: 'Point',
  coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584]
}, {
  submitOnchain: true,
  metadata: {
    name: "Eiffel Tower",
    description: "Iconic Paris landmark"
  }
});

console.log(landmark.uid);  // 0xabc123...
```

## Storage Options

Location Attestations can be stored **onchain** or **offchain**:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Onchain Attestations" icon="link">
    - Stored on EAS contracts
    - Referenced by UID alone
    - Higher gas cost
    - Permanent, immutable
  </Card>
  <Card title="Offchain Attestations" icon="cloud">
    - Stored on IPFS, servers, etc.
    - Referenced by UID + URI
    - No gas cost to create
    - EIP-712 signed
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

### Onchain

```typescript
// Create onchain attestation
const location = await astral.location.create(geojson, {
  submitOnchain: true
});

// Reference by UID only
await astral.compute.distance(location.uid, otherUID);
```

### Offchain

```typescript
// Create offchain attestation
const location = await astral.location.create(geojson, {
  submitOnchain: false,
  storage: 'ipfs'  // or 'arweave', 'https', etc.
});

// Reference by UID + URI
await astral.compute.distance(
  { uid: location.uid, uri: location.uri },
  otherUID
);
```

## Schema

Location Attestations follow the Location Protocol schema, inspired by PostGIS geometry tables:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `geometry` | bytes | Encoded GeoJSON geometry |
| `geometryType` | string | "Point", "Polygon", "LineString", etc. |
| `srs` | string | Spatial reference system (default: EPSG:4326) |
| `properties` | bytes | Optional metadata (JSON encoded) |

## Using Location Attestations

Location Attestations serve as **inputs** to geospatial operations:

```typescript
// As direct UID (onchain attestation)
const result = await astral.compute.distance(
  '0xabc123...',  // UID of first location
  '0xdef456...'   // UID of second location
);

// As UID + URI (offchain attestation)
const result = await astral.compute.contains(
  { uid: '0xabc123...', uri: 'ipfs://Qm...' },
  userLocationUID
);

// As inline attestation object
const result = await astral.compute.within(
  { attestation: signedOffchainAttestation },
  landmarkUID,
  500
);
```

## Raw GeoJSON Alternative

You can also use **raw GeoJSON** without creating an attestation first:

```typescript
// Raw GeoJSON as input
const result = await astral.compute.contains(
  {
    type: 'Polygon',
    coordinates: [[[...]]]  // SF Bay Area boundary
  },
  userLocationUID
);
```

<Warning>
  Raw GeoJSON is **not verified**. The Policy Attestation proves "Astral computed the relationship between inputs A and B" but does NOT prove where those geometries came from. Use raw GeoJSON for reference geometries (official boundaries) or prototyping.
</Warning>

## Fetching Location Attestations

```typescript
// Get by UID
const location = await astral.location.get('0xabc123...');
console.log(location.geometry);  // { type: 'Point', coordinates: [...] }

// Query with filters
const locations = await astral.location.query({
  bbox: [-122.5, 37.7, -122.4, 37.8],  // Bounding box
  limit: 100
});
```

## Coordinate System

Location Attestations honor the `srs` field:

- **Default**: WGS84 (EPSG:4326) — standard GPS coordinates
- **Custom**: Any EPSG code supported by PostGIS

Coordinates should be in **[longitude, latitude]** order (GeoJSON standard).

<Card title="Next: Geospatial Operations" icon="calculator" href="/concepts/geospatial-operations">
  Learn about the spatial computations you can perform
</Card>

Commit message:

Update location attestations to reference v0.2 spec
- Link to Location Protocol v0.2 draft
- Note that location type is agnostic, not just GeoJSON
- Add chainId to code examples
- Add "code snippets need testing" warnings
- Update schema section with v0.2 fields (with verification note)
- Change "where came from" to "who signed" for accuracy
- Update SRS field to use OGC URIs per v0.2

concepts/location-attestations.mdx, after:

---
title: "Location Attestations"
description: "Signed spatial records that serve as inputs to geospatial operations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — Under active development.
</Warning>

# Location Attestations

Location Attestations are **signed spatial records** that conform to the [Location Protocol v0.2](https://github.com/DecentralizedGeo/location-protocol-spec/tree/v0.2-draft) schema. They can represent points, polygons, routes, or any geospatial data.

## What is a Location Attestation?

A Location Attestation is an EAS attestation containing:

- **Geometry**: The spatial data (GeoJSON format)
- **Metadata**: Optional descriptive information
- **Signature**: Cryptographic proof of the attester's identity

<Note>
  **Code snippets need testing** — Verify against actual implementation before use.
</Note>

```typescript
// Creating a location attestation
const landmark = await astral.location.create({
  type: 'Point',
  coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584]
}, {
  chainId: 84532,
  submitOnchain: true,
  metadata: {
    name: "Eiffel Tower",
    description: "Iconic Paris landmark"
  }
});

console.log(landmark.uid);  // 0xabc123...
```

## Storage Options

Location Attestations can be stored **onchain** or **offchain**:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Onchain Attestations" icon="link">
    - Stored on EAS contracts
    - Referenced by UID alone
    - Higher gas cost
    - Permanent, immutable
  </Card>
  <Card title="Offchain Attestations" icon="cloud">
    - Stored on IPFS, servers, etc.
    - Referenced by UID + URI
    - No gas cost to create
    - EIP-712 signed
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

### Onchain

```typescript
// Create onchain attestation
const location = await astral.location.create(geojson, {
  submitOnchain: true
});

// Reference by UID only
await astral.compute.distance(location.uid, otherUID);
```

### Offchain

```typescript
// Create offchain attestation
const location = await astral.location.create(geojson, {
  submitOnchain: false,
  storage: 'ipfs'  // or 'arweave', 'https', etc.
});

// Reference by UID + URI
await astral.compute.distance(
  { uid: location.uid, uri: location.uri },
  otherUID
);
```

## Schema

Location Attestations follow the [Location Protocol v0.2](https://github.com/DecentralizedGeo/location-protocol-spec/tree/v0.2-draft) schema:

<Warning>
  **Schema fields need verification** — The fields below are illustrative. Reference the v0.2 spec for the current schema definition.
</Warning>

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `locationType` | string | The type of location data (e.g., "GeoJSON") |
| `location` | bytes | Encoded location data |
| `srs` | string | Spatial reference system as OGC URI |
| `properties` | bytes | Optional metadata (JSON encoded) |

## Using Location Attestations

Location Attestations serve as **inputs** to geospatial operations:

```typescript
// As direct UID (onchain attestation)
const result = await astral.compute.distance(
  '0xabc123...',  // UID of first location
  '0xdef456...'   // UID of second location
);

// As UID + URI (offchain attestation)
const result = await astral.compute.contains(
  { uid: '0xabc123...', uri: 'ipfs://Qm...' },
  userLocationUID
);

// As inline attestation object
const result = await astral.compute.within(
  { attestation: signedOffchainAttestation },
  landmarkUID,
  500
);
```

## Raw GeoJSON Alternative

You can also use **raw GeoJSON** without creating an attestation first:

```typescript
// Raw GeoJSON as input
const result = await astral.compute.contains(
  {
    type: 'Polygon',
    coordinates: [[[...]]]  // SF Bay Area boundary
  },
  userLocationUID
);
```

<Warning>
  Raw GeoJSON is **not attested**. The Policy Attestation proves "Astral computed the relationship between inputs A and B" but does NOT prove **who signed** those geometries. Use raw GeoJSON for reference geometries (official boundaries) or prototyping.
</Warning>

## Fetching Location Attestations

```typescript
// Get by UID
const location = await astral.location.get('0xabc123...');
console.log(location.geometry);  // { type: 'Point', coordinates: [...] }

// Query with filters
const locations = await astral.location.query({
  bbox: [-122.5, 37.7, -122.4, 37.8],  // Bounding box
  limit: 100
});
```

## Coordinate System

Location Attestations honor the `srs` field, using OGC URIs per [Location Protocol v0.2](https://github.com/DecentralizedGeo/location-protocol-spec/tree/v0.2-draft):

- **Default**: `http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84` (WGS84, lon/lat order)
- **Custom**: Any OGC CRS URI supported by PostGIS

Coordinates should be in **[longitude, latitude]** order (GeoJSON standard).

<Card title="Next: Geospatial Operations" icon="calculator" href="/concepts/geospatial-operations">
  Learn about the spatial computations you can perform
</Card>
