api-reference/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "API Overview"
description: "REST API for verifiable geospatial computations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — This API specification is under development.
</Warning>

# API Reference

The Astral Compute API provides REST endpoints for verifiable geospatial operations.

## Base URL

```
https://api.astral.global/compute/v0
```

## Authentication

### Phase 1 (MVP)

No authentication required. Rate limiting by IP address.

```bash
# No auth headers needed
curl https://api.astral.global/compute/v0/distance \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"chainId": 84532, "from": "0xabc...", "to": "0xdef...", "schema": "0x..."}'
```

### Phase 2 (Future)

Wallet-based authentication with signed requests.

```bash
curl https://api.astral.global/compute/v0/distance \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Wallet-Address: 0x..." \
  -H "X-Signature: 0x..." \
  -d '...'
```

## Input Types

All endpoints accept geometry inputs in these formats:

| Format | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| UID string | Onchain attestation | `"0xabc123..."` |
| GeoJSON | Raw geometry | `{"type": "Point", "coordinates": [2.29, 48.85]}` |
| UID + URI | Offchain attestation | `{"uid": "0xabc...", "uri": "ipfs://Qm..."}` |
| Inline attestation | Full offchain object | `{"attestation": {...}}` |

## Response Format

All successful responses include:

```json
{
  "result": 523.45,
  "units": "meters",
  "operation": "distance",
  "timestamp": 1706400000,
  "inputRefs": ["0x...", "0x..."],
  "attestation": {
    "schema": "0x...",
    "attester": "0x...",
    "recipient": "0x...",
    "data": "0x...",
    "signature": "0x..."
  },
  "delegatedAttestation": {
    "signature": "0x...",
    "attester": "0x...",
    "deadline": 1706403600
  }
}
```

## Error Format

Errors follow [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807) (Problem Details for HTTP APIs):

```json
{
  "type": "https://api.astral.global/errors/attestation-not-found",
  "title": "Attestation Not Found",
  "status": 404,
  "detail": "Location attestation with UID 0xabc123... not found on chain 84532"
}
```

### Error Types

| Type | Status | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| `invalid-input` | 400 | Bad request data, missing fields, invalid geometry |
| `attestation-not-found` | 404 | UID doesn't exist on specified chain |
| `verification-failed` | 401 | Signature verification failed |
| `computation-error` | 500 | PostGIS operation failed |
| `rate-limited` | 429 | Too many requests |

## Rate Limits

| Auth Level | Limit |
|------------|-------|
| Unauthenticated | 100 requests/hour |
| Wallet authenticated | 1000 requests/hour |

## Available Endpoints

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="POST /distance" href="/api-reference/distance">
    Distance between two geometries
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /contains" href="/api-reference/contains">
    Is geometry B inside geometry A?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /within" href="/api-reference/within">
    Is point within radius of target?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /intersects" href="/api-reference/intersects">
    Do geometries overlap?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /area" href="/api-reference/area">
    Area of a polygon
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /length" href="/api-reference/length">
    Length of a line
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs(api): add chain configuration with Astral signer addresses
Adds table with EAS, Schema Registry, and Astral TEE signer addresses
per chain. Resolver contracts need the signer address to verify that
attestations were signed by Astral's trusted execution environment.

Also clarifies rate limits are per-IP and adds a note about testing.

Addresses part of #7

api-reference/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "API Overview"
description: "REST API for verifiable geospatial computations"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — This API specification is under development.
</Warning>

# API Reference

The Astral Compute API provides REST endpoints for verifiable geospatial operations.

## Base URL

```
https://api.astral.global/compute/v0
```

## Authentication

### Phase 1 (MVP)

No authentication required. Rate limiting by IP address.

```bash
# No auth headers needed
curl https://api.astral.global/compute/v0/distance \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"chainId": 84532, "from": "0xabc...", "to": "0xdef...", "schema": "0x..."}'
```

### Phase 2 (Future)

Wallet-based authentication with signed requests.

```bash
curl https://api.astral.global/compute/v0/distance \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Wallet-Address: 0x..." \
  -H "X-Signature: 0x..." \
  -d '...'
```

## Input Types

All endpoints accept geometry inputs in these formats:

| Format | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| UID string | Onchain attestation | `"0xabc123..."` |
| GeoJSON | Raw geometry | `{"type": "Point", "coordinates": [2.29, 48.85]}` |
| UID + URI | Offchain attestation | `{"uid": "0xabc...", "uri": "ipfs://Qm..."}` |
| Inline attestation | Full offchain object | `{"attestation": {...}}` |

## Response Format

All successful responses include:

```json
{
  "result": 523.45,
  "units": "meters",
  "operation": "distance",
  "timestamp": 1706400000,
  "inputRefs": ["0x...", "0x..."],
  "attestation": {
    "schema": "0x...",
    "attester": "0x...",
    "recipient": "0x...",
    "data": "0x...",
    "signature": "0x..."
  },
  "delegatedAttestation": {
    "signature": "0x...",
    "attester": "0x...",
    "deadline": 1706403600
  }
}
```

## Error Format

Errors follow [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807) (Problem Details for HTTP APIs):

```json
{
  "type": "https://api.astral.global/errors/attestation-not-found",
  "title": "Attestation Not Found",
  "status": 404,
  "detail": "Location attestation with UID 0xabc123... not found on chain 84532"
}
```

### Error Types

| Type | Status | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| `invalid-input` | 400 | Bad request data, missing fields, invalid geometry |
| `attestation-not-found` | 404 | UID doesn't exist on specified chain |
| `verification-failed` | 401 | Signature verification failed |
| `computation-error` | 500 | PostGIS operation failed |
| `rate-limited` | 429 | Too many requests |

## Rate Limits

| Auth Level | Limit |
|------------|-------|
| Unauthenticated | 100 requests/hour per IP |
| Wallet authenticated | 1000 requests/hour |

<Note>
During development and testing, you may hit rate limits quickly. Consider caching results or using a test wallet for higher limits.
</Note>

## Chain Configuration

The following table shows addresses for supported chains. The **Astral Signer** is the TEE address that signs delegated attestations—resolver contracts must verify attestations come from this address.

| Chain | Chain ID | EAS | Schema Registry | Astral Signer |
|-------|----------|-----|-----------------|---------------|
| Base Sepolia | 84532 | `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000021` | `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000020` | `0x2376192D7F1B50130f1aC3995Ad610251a06067C` |
| Base | 8453 | `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000021` | `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000020` | *Coming soon* |

## Available Endpoints

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="POST /distance" href="/api-reference/distance">
    Distance between two geometries
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /contains" href="/api-reference/contains">
    Is geometry B inside geometry A?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /within" href="/api-reference/within">
    Is point within radius of target?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /intersects" href="/api-reference/intersects">
    Do geometries overlap?
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /area" href="/api-reference/area">
    Area of a polygon
  </Card>
  <Card title="POST /length" href="/api-reference/length">
    Length of a line
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
