sdk/migration.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migration Guide"
description: "Migrate from Astral SDK v0.1.x to v0.2.0"
---

<Warning>
  **Development Preview** — The SDK is under development.
</Warning>

# Migration Guide: v0.1.x to v0.2.0

This guide covers the breaking changes and migration steps for upgrading from Astral SDK v0.1.x to v0.2.0.

## Overview of Changes

### What Changed

1. **Unified Package**: Location attestations and geospatial computations are now in a single package
2. **Namespaced API**: Methods are organized under `location.offchain.*`, `location.onchain.*`, and `compute.*`
3. **New Configuration**: Unified `AstralConfig` replaces separate configurations
4. **New Compute Module**: Integrated `ComputeModule` replaces `@decentralized-geo/astral-compute`

### What Stayed the Same

- Core attestation types (`UnsignedLocationAttestation`, `OffchainLocationAttestation`, `OnchainLocationAttestation`)
- Location format support (GeoJSON, WKT, H3, coordinates)
- EAS integration and schema encoding

---

## Package Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```bash
# Two separate packages
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-sdk
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-compute
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```bash
# Single unified package
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-sdk
```

---

## Initialization Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

// Separate initialization
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });
const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Unified initialization
const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

// Access modules via namespaces
astral.location.offchain.*
astral.location.onchain.*
astral.compute.*
```

---

## Method Migration Table

### Location Module

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.buildLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.build()` |
| `sdk.encodeLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.encode()` |
| `sdk.decodeLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.decode()` |

### Offchain Workflow

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.createOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.create()` |
| `sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.sign()` |
| `sdk.verifyOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.verify()` |
| `sdk.publishOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.publish()` |

### Onchain Workflow

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.createOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.create()` |
| `sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.register()` |
| `sdk.verifyOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.verify()` |
| `sdk.revokeOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.revoke()` |

### Compute Module

| v0.1.x (astral-compute) | v0.2.0 Method |
|-------------------------|---------------|
| `compute.distance()` | `astral.compute.distance()` |
| `compute.area()` | `astral.compute.area()` |
| `compute.length()` | `astral.compute.length()` |
| `compute.contains()` | `astral.compute.contains()` |
| `compute.within()` | `astral.compute.within()` |
| `compute.intersects()` | `astral.compute.intersects()` |
| `eas.submitDelegated()` | `astral.compute.submit()` |
| `eas.estimateGas()` | `astral.compute.estimate()` |

---

## Code Migration Examples

### Example 1: Creating an Offchain Attestation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });

const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});

const signed = await sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
const verified = await sdk.verifyOffchainLocationAttestation(signed);
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const astral = new AstralSDK({ chainId: 84532, signer: wallet });

// Option 1: Build and sign separately
const unsigned = await astral.location.build({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});
const signed = await astral.location.offchain.sign(unsigned);

// Option 2: Create in one step
const attestation = await astral.location.offchain.create({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});

const verified = await astral.location.offchain.verify(attestation);
```

---

### Example 2: Creating an Onchain Attestation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet, chainId: 84532 });

const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: geojson
});

const onchain = await sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
const astral = new AstralSDK({ chainId: 84532, signer: wallet });

// Option 1: Build and register separately
const unsigned = await astral.location.build({ location: geojson });
const onchain = await astral.location.onchain.register(unsigned);

// Option 2: Create in one step
const onchain = await astral.location.onchain.create({ location: geojson });
```

---

### Example 3: Geospatial Computation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);

const result = await compute.within(
  userLocationUID,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

if (result.result) {
  await eas.submitDelegated(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

const result = await astral.compute.within(
  userLocationUID,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

if (result.result) {
  await astral.compute.submit(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

---

### Example 4: Full Workflow

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

// Initialize three clients
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });
const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);

// Create location
const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: userCoords
});
const location = await sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);

// Check policy
const result = await compute.within(
  location.uid,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

// Submit result
if (result.result) {
  await eas.submitDelegated(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Single unified client
const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

// Create location
const location = await astral.location.onchain.create({
  location: userCoords
});

// Check policy
const result = await astral.compute.within(
  location.uid,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

// Submit result
if (result.result) {
  await astral.compute.submit(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

---

## Configuration Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
// AstralSDK config
interface AstralSDKConfig {
  signer: Signer;
  chainId?: number;
  defaultChain?: string;
}

// AstralCompute config
interface AstralComputeConfig {
  chainId: number;
  apiUrl?: string;
}
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
interface AstralConfig {
  // Required
  chainId: number;

  // Optional
  signer?: Signer;
  provider?: Provider;
  apiUrl?: string;
  debug?: boolean;
  schemas?: RuntimeSchemaConfig[];
  defaultSchema?: RuntimeSchemaConfig;
  strictSchemaValidation?: boolean;
}
```

---

## Legacy Support

If you need to maintain backward compatibility during migration, the v0.1.x API is available via `AstralSDKLegacy`:

```typescript
import { AstralSDKLegacy } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Use v0.1.x API
const sdk = new AstralSDKLegacy({ signer: wallet });
const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({ ... });
const signed = await sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
```

<Warning>
  `AstralSDKLegacy` is deprecated and will be removed in v0.3.0. Migrate to the new API before then.
</Warning>

---

## TypeScript Import Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import {
  AstralCompute,
  AstralEAS,
  NumericComputeResult,
  BooleanComputeResult
} from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import {
  AstralSDK,
  // Location types
  LocationAttestationInput,
  UnsignedLocationAttestation,
  OffchainLocationAttestation,
  OnchainLocationAttestation,
  VerificationResult,
  // Compute types
  Input,
  ComputeOptions,
  NumericComputeResult,
  BooleanComputeResult,
  DelegatedAttestation,
  // Configuration
  AstralConfig,
  RuntimeSchemaConfig,
} from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
```

---

## Need Help?

If you encounter issues during migration:

1. Check the [SDK Overview](/sdk/overview) for complete API reference
2. Review the [Location Module](/sdk/location) and [Compute Module](/sdk/compute) documentation
3. Join our [Telegram community](https://t.me/+UkTOSXnDcDM5ZTBk) for support
4. Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/AstralProtocol/astral-location-services)

<Card title="Back: SDK Overview" icon="arrow-left" href="/sdk/overview">
  Return to SDK overview
</Card>

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive review updates
- Change all "Development Preview" to "Research Preview"
- Update introduction with geofencing oracle framing
- Rewrite trust model as two-part (input truthfulness vs computation correctness)
- Replace ASCII diagrams with mermaid diagrams throughout
- Update location-attestations to "Location Records" concept
- Rename geofenced-token guide to "Local Currency", change SF to Berlin
- Add execution context to delivery-verification code snippets
- Add Astral Signer Address prominently in security docs
- Update roadmap to reflect current deployment status
- Fix SDK compute.mdx "Next" link to point to EAS Integration
- Simplify migration.mdx (remove "unified SDK" language)
- Update all API reference pages to Research Preview
- Add link to Astral API repo in Records API overview
- Update staging title to just "Staging"
- Update favicon

sdk/migration.mdx, after:

---
title: "Migration Guide"
description: "Migrate from Astral SDK v0.1.x to v0.2.0"
---

<Warning>
  **Research Preview** — The SDK is under development.
</Warning>

# Migration Guide: v0.1.x to v0.2.0

This guide covers the breaking changes and migration steps for upgrading from Astral SDK v0.1.x to v0.2.0.

## Overview of Changes

### What Changed

1. **Namespaced API**: Methods are organized under `location.offchain.*`, `location.onchain.*`, and `compute.*`
2. **New Compute Module**: The `compute.*` namespace provides verifiable geospatial operations
3. **Simplified Configuration**: Single `AstralConfig` for initialization

### What Stayed the Same

- Core attestation types (`UnsignedLocationAttestation`, `OffchainLocationAttestation`, `OnchainLocationAttestation`)
- Location format support (GeoJSON, WKT, H3, coordinates)
- EAS integration and schema encoding

---

## Package Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```bash
# Two separate packages
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-sdk
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-compute
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```bash
# Single unified package
npm install @decentralized-geo/astral-sdk
```

---

## Initialization Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

// Separate initialization
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });
const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Unified initialization
const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

// Access modules via namespaces
astral.location.offchain.*
astral.location.onchain.*
astral.compute.*
```

---

## Method Migration Table

### Location Module

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.buildLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.build()` |
| `sdk.encodeLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.encode()` |
| `sdk.decodeLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.decode()` |

### Offchain Workflow

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.createOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.create()` |
| `sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.sign()` |
| `sdk.verifyOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.verify()` |
| `sdk.publishOffchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.offchain.publish()` |

### Onchain Workflow

| v0.1.x Method | v0.2.0 Method |
|---------------|---------------|
| `sdk.createOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.create()` |
| `sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.register()` |
| `sdk.verifyOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.verify()` |
| `sdk.revokeOnchainLocationAttestation()` | `astral.location.onchain.revoke()` |

### Compute Module

| v0.1.x (astral-compute) | v0.2.0 Method |
|-------------------------|---------------|
| `compute.distance()` | `astral.compute.distance()` |
| `compute.area()` | `astral.compute.area()` |
| `compute.length()` | `astral.compute.length()` |
| `compute.contains()` | `astral.compute.contains()` |
| `compute.within()` | `astral.compute.within()` |
| `compute.intersects()` | `astral.compute.intersects()` |
| `eas.submitDelegated()` | `astral.compute.submit()` |
| `eas.estimateGas()` | `astral.compute.estimate()` |

---

## Code Migration Examples

### Example 1: Creating an Offchain Attestation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });

const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});

const signed = await sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
const verified = await sdk.verifyOffchainLocationAttestation(signed);
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const astral = new AstralSDK({ chainId: 84532, signer: wallet });

// Option 1: Build and sign separately
const unsigned = await astral.location.build({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});
const signed = await astral.location.offchain.sign(unsigned);

// Option 2: Create in one step
const attestation = await astral.location.offchain.create({
  location: { type: 'Point', coordinates: [2.2945, 48.8584] },
  memo: 'Eiffel Tower'
});

const verified = await astral.location.offchain.verify(attestation);
```

---

### Example 2: Creating an Onchain Attestation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet, chainId: 84532 });

const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: geojson
});

const onchain = await sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
const astral = new AstralSDK({ chainId: 84532, signer: wallet });

// Option 1: Build and register separately
const unsigned = await astral.location.build({ location: geojson });
const onchain = await astral.location.onchain.register(unsigned);

// Option 2: Create in one step
const onchain = await astral.location.onchain.create({ location: geojson });
```

---

### Example 3: Geospatial Computation

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);

const result = await compute.within(
  userLocationUID,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

if (result.result) {
  await eas.submitDelegated(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

const result = await astral.compute.within(
  userLocationUID,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

if (result.result) {
  await astral.compute.submit(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

---

### Example 4: Full Workflow

#### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import { AstralCompute, AstralEAS } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';

// Initialize three clients
const sdk = new AstralSDK({ signer: wallet });
const compute = new AstralCompute({ chainId: 84532 });
const eas = new AstralEAS(wallet, 84532);

// Create location
const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({
  location: userCoords
});
const location = await sdk.registerOnchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);

// Check policy
const result = await compute.within(
  location.uid,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

// Submit result
if (result.result) {
  await eas.submitDelegated(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

#### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Single unified client
const astral = new AstralSDK({
  chainId: 84532,
  signer: wallet,
  apiUrl: 'https://api.astral.global'
});

// Create location
const location = await astral.location.onchain.create({
  location: userCoords
});

// Check policy
const result = await astral.compute.within(
  location.uid,
  landmarkUID,
  500,
  { schema: SCHEMA_UID }
);

// Submit result
if (result.result) {
  await astral.compute.submit(result.delegatedAttestation);
}
```

---

## Configuration Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
// AstralSDK config
interface AstralSDKConfig {
  signer: Signer;
  chainId?: number;
  defaultChain?: string;
}

// AstralCompute config
interface AstralComputeConfig {
  chainId: number;
  apiUrl?: string;
}
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
interface AstralConfig {
  // Required
  chainId: number;

  // Optional
  signer?: Signer;
  provider?: Provider;
  apiUrl?: string;
  debug?: boolean;
  schemas?: RuntimeSchemaConfig[];
  defaultSchema?: RuntimeSchemaConfig;
  strictSchemaValidation?: boolean;
}
```

---

## Legacy Support

If you need to maintain backward compatibility during migration, the v0.1.x API is available via `AstralSDKLegacy`:

```typescript
import { AstralSDKLegacy } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';

// Use v0.1.x API
const sdk = new AstralSDKLegacy({ signer: wallet });
const unsigned = await sdk.buildLocationAttestation({ ... });
const signed = await sdk.signOffchainLocationAttestation(unsigned);
```

<Warning>
  `AstralSDKLegacy` is deprecated and will be removed in v0.3.0. Migrate to the new API before then.
</Warning>

---

## TypeScript Import Changes

### Before (v0.1.x)

```typescript
import { AstralSDK } from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
import {
  AstralCompute,
  AstralEAS,
  NumericComputeResult,
  BooleanComputeResult
} from '@decentralized-geo/astral-compute';
```

### After (v0.2.0)

```typescript
import {
  AstralSDK,
  // Location types
  LocationAttestationInput,
  UnsignedLocationAttestation,
  OffchainLocationAttestation,
  OnchainLocationAttestation,
  VerificationResult,
  // Compute types
  Input,
  ComputeOptions,
  NumericComputeResult,
  BooleanComputeResult,
  DelegatedAttestation,
  // Configuration
  AstralConfig,
  RuntimeSchemaConfig,
} from '@decentralized-geo/astral-sdk';
```

---

## Need Help?

If you encounter issues during migration:

1. Check the [SDK Overview](/sdk/overview) for complete API reference
2. Review the [Location Module](/sdk/location) and [Compute Module](/sdk/compute) documentation
3. Join our [Telegram community](https://t.me/+UkTOSXnDcDM5ZTBk) for support
4. Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/AstralProtocol/astral-location-services)

<Card title="Back: SDK Overview" icon="arrow-left" href="/sdk/overview">
  Return to SDK overview
</Card>
